Greg Rickel: I'd say in the white world we're
all over the map about what it means and whether
it's real or not. If you just bring up white
privilege,
you've already got divisiveness in the room.
Tariqa Waters: We've existed in it without
even knowing the word for it, I feel.
M. Lorena González: White privilege is the
acknowledgment that our country has a
deep-seated conflict in history with race, and that that history has brought us to a place where white skin
affords you a greater amount of access to opportunity than if your skin wasn't white.
Keli Carender: It almost seems like you're
accusing somebody of either not having good
intentions or of not deserving what they have
in life or not having worked for it.
Rachael: You're not a bad person by benefiting
from white privilege. You didn't really have
any choice in the matter, but you do have
a choice in kind of how you engage with the world.
Jerrell Davis: And here's the thing about
not acknowledging white privilege, is that
you internalize that superiority.
Sean: I can look at the currency of our country
and everyone on the currency has the same
skin tone as me which reaffirms certain notions
about, about power. You can go to a hotel
and expect the, the shampoo to work with your
kind of hair.
Autumn Bennett: Hotel shampoo is crap. So
who cares. Black people can't get, like, black
Band-Aids and that's like white privilege.
Band-Aids? I mean come on, like it's that
these little things that I've heard.
Tariqa: So my mom would braid my hair all
the time, and it was really long and I was
over at my grandmother's house. And I said,
you know, “I want to be white,” and she
said, and she almost slapped me across my
face, and she said “why?” I said “Because
I wouldn't have to braid my hair.” You know
like just the, these things of just being
able to be free in the world without all these
restrictions, I saw that as this oppressive thing.
Rachael DeCruz: White privilege is the fact
that you don't have to think about your race.
And when you're not white, you do confront
that on a daily basis; you're reminded on a
daily basis that you're not white. Whether
it be seeing yourself represented in the political
structure, in the media, in our education
system.
Cynthia Tee: When you're favored, sometimes
you just don't even really realize you're favored.
Darrell Hillaire: You have no idea. That's
what white privilege means. You have no idea.
Jerrell: Privilege itself is a concept, ain't
nobody gonna disagree that privilege exists,
right? As a male I have privilege.
Louis Chude-Sokei: There's male privilege,
there’s heterosexual privilege
Autumn: I don't have any, wait I do have privilege.
It's very confusing, I read the list of privileges
a while back and I just was like, “What!”
Like the able-bodied privilege and female privilege.
Louis: And there's also the privilege of you
know being an American, first-world privilege.
Even if you're from Rainier Flats, right? Or West Oakland.
Keli: Anybody can be privileged, and I actually
think every group has certain privileges.
Mark Olsen: I absolutely think there's privilege,
sure, sure. Different people are privileged
differently than other people. And I think
if you look statistically in America right
now, I think you would, I think we would find
that white people tend to be more privileged
than non-white people. With that being said
though I'm very hesitant to say there is white,
all white people are privileged, therefore
there is white privilege.
Lucas Nydam: You can grow up poor and white
and still have white privilege, because it's
white privilege. Doesn't mean you’re privileged
in everything; it just means you're privileged
because of your race over people of other
races.
Rachael DeCruz: So I think people sometimes when
they experience oppression in other areas
tend to not see the privilege that's in their
lives.
Louis: We say you have white privilege to
someone who's working five jobs or someone
who can't get into this school. It doesn't
really communicate anything to them
and it just generates resentment.
Sean Riley: I think my skin color enhances
my freedoms to and my freedoms from things.
I don't have to worry about my skin color
being a detriment to getting a loan or to
my possibility of getting a job.
Michael Dixon: White privilege means that
you can just be. The things that are available
to you, you can get. The things that are available
to me, sometimes I can get, sometimes I can't.
Varisha Khan: White privilege is being able
to speak out about your country, about your
government, about politics, without being
seen as unloyal or unpatriotic.
Leija Farr: Look at the media and, like, look
at what images they show you as beautiful.
Look at what images they show you as powerful.
Duck Bae: Since you don't look like this beautiful
ideal, and because that ideal happens to be
white, that is the cause of a lot of internalized
racism. Things like that make it difficult
to hold within you that kind of pride of the
unique beauty
that your race that you yourself hold.
Autumn: White people have had, like, such
a better chance in this world. Like no, actually,
because slavery was over a hundred years ago.
You weren't involved. None of us were. We
don't have to piggyback on a poor and bad
legacy.
Louis: White privilege is the accretion of
history that whether you were involved in
it or not directly, has accrued over time
into your very sense of self
and manifests in how you relate to the world.
Jerrell: When you give somebody historical
context, to me it's hard to deny the truth.
And people that say they don't have white
privilege, like “I worked for everything
I got,” I mean, I think even that speaks
to white privilege. And this idea that we can
pull ourselves up by our bootstraps, like
that's just bullshit, like you better give
some credit to the people that are around
you because they help you survive.
Lucas: Just talking with my stepdad in general,
he's like “Oh, I worked hard my whole life,”
and I'm like “I'm sure you did, but you
also started higher up on the ladder than
other people of other colors and other backgrounds.”
A lot of times people like to think that everything
we do is a result of our own actions, which
is not necessarily the case of course.
Lorena: There is no question that white folks,
even those who come from a disadvantaged socioeconomic
background, have difficulties and challenges.
But when you are a person of color, those
struggles, those barriers, are deeper and more profound. And white privilege is an acknowledgment
that we are not starting at an equal place.
That communities of color need a head start,
if you will, just to get to the same start
line that our white counterparts are at.